# Introducing Action Space

## Maintainer's Comment | 17.03.2025

Since I had a major illness, I was unable to post this blog as planned. Also, I wasn't able to code at the pace and with the quality I intended, which led to incomplete code.
The reason why I still decided to commit the code was that you guys can see what I've been working on and how I've been progressing.
I finally got around to writing about **Action Space**, a procedural macro designed to compose **Tensor** operation sequences in Rust. This is still not working properly, but I hope to fix it soon.

## Introduction

When working with AI models, especially in **reinforcement learning** and **ensembled learning**, you often end up chaining multiple operations on **Tensor**. **Action Space** is a Rust procedural macro that makes composing these tensor operations straightforward.
With **Action Space**, the goal was to abstract **Tensor** operation sequences so that they can be easily composed and reused. This is intended to make it easier to manage and maintain complex **Tensor** operations.

### Example: Composing Tensor Operations

Here's a basic example demonstrating how **Action Space** helps structure **Tensor** computations in Rust:

```rust
use cubecl::wgpu::WgpuRuntime;
use lib_proc_macros::action_space;

fn some() {
    let input: TensorHandleRef<WgpuRuntime> = build_tensor::<WgpuRuntime>();

    let result: TensorHandleRef<WgpuRuntime> = action_space!(
        WgpuRuntime,
        (input, ExecMean, output),
        ((input, output), PrepResiduals),
        (ExecSum),
        (PrepSquare),
        (ExecProd),
    );
}
```

### Breaking It Down
- The macro takes a **Runtime** to define the environment.
- The first tuple takes the **input** before the operations are applied.
- Operations from the `PipelineExec` and `PipelinePush` trait are applied sequentially.
- If we want to handle the **output** of a specific operation differently, we can add a variable name in the tuple behind the operation.
- When the operation needs a non-default input, we can specify it with a tuple before the operation.
- The default case takes the output of the previous operation and passes it to the next operation.

For now, the goal here is that we can input either a 1D, 2D, or 3D **Tensor**.
- A 1D **Tensor** results in a **Scalar**.
- A 2D **Tensor** results in a **Vector**.
- A 3D **Tensor** results in a **Matrix**.

This isn't working properly yet, and we also do not handle **Runtime** and **Client** as intended. This results in the plan to fix and improve this feature next.
